In this video, you will learn more about working with PyTorch tensors by reshaping them from one size
to a different size.
Essentially, this means taking all the information inside the tensor and just organizing it into a
different way with all the same elements but different shapes.
Okay, so let's start by looking at W1 again.
Oops, I meant to write W1.
And now I can use a method on this tensor which is the t method.
And what is t stand for.
It stands for transpose.
Transpose means to swap the rows and the columns.
So let me print out w1 and then print out a space in here as well.
Okay.
So here you see the original W1.
Over here it is two rows and three columns.
And here you see the transpose of W1.
And that is two columns and three rows.
So notice the first column.
Nine four becomes the first row in the transposed version of this matrix.
Similarly, the first row in the original matrix is 923, and that becomes the first column in the transpose
matrix 923.
So all the information is still there.
We haven't changed or removed or modified any of the information in the tensor.
All we've done is swap the rows and the columns.
Okay, here is another thing you can do.
This is called flatten.
To flatten a tensor means to spread it out or like to spool it out into one vector.
If you have taken a linear algebra course then the linear algebra term is vectorize.
So we are vectorizing this matrix by just stretching it out, spooling it out into one set of numbers
like this.
So again all the numbers in here in the flattened version are exactly the same as these numbers.
You can see.
Here's the first row, here's the first row, here's the second row.
And now this is just concatenated on.
It doesn't matter how big W1 is when you flatten it, it just becomes one really long string of numbers.
Uh, flattening matrices is something that you do when you're interested in the numerical characteristics
of the data, and you don't care about the organization.
You will see this.
For example, when making histograms we use the flatten method.
Okay.
Another thing we can do or another method is called dot view.
Again let me show you w1.
Now I will write dot view one comma minus one.
And this is not exactly the same as flatten because here let me write this out shape and then shape.
So in both cases they there are six elements.
But here, with that view, I've actually preserved a two dimensional tensor.
So this is of size one by six.
And this one is a vector.
So a one dimensional tensor it's just of size six okay.
So this still has an additional dimension here.
And what is the minus one for.
Let me comment this so we can see the original matrix and comment this.
So we can see the review.
I specified that the new view or the way to reshape this tensor w one is by having one row, and the
minus one means I don't care how many columns it ends up being, just keep making the columns bigger
and bigger until we run out of room, or until you use up all the elements in the matrix.
So for example, you know, I know that this needs to be six.
So that's going to give me the same number.
But maybe I put four here.
And now I'm going to get an error because shape one comma four is invalid.
So basically PyTorch is complaining that there are six elements, but I'm trying to get a one by four
vector, so that just doesn't make sense.
It doesn't fit.
So we can write one comma six.
Now the thing is, if you want to write the exact number of elements, you need to know the exact number
of elements.
Sometimes you don't know that in advance.
Sometimes you actually can calculate it, but it's just an additional calculation with more code that
you don't need.
So that's why you write minus one and you basically say PyTorch.
You figure it out, you calculate how many columns this is going to end up being.
Okay.
We can also reverse this.
And here I'm saying I want one column and however many rows that ends up being.
So that is again all the same information in the tensor.
But now we have however many rows we have.
It turns out to be six rows, However many rows and one column.
Now notice this looks quite different from how it looked before with a row vector.
Okay, so this is a view.
There's another method called reshape.
It does exactly the same thing.
To be honest, I'm not sure off the top of my head why there is two separate methods for view and reshape.
I'm sure there are some subtle differences between them, but in practice you can use them interchangeably.
Okay, so that is for flatten view and reshape.
Let's make some other variables with PyTorch.
So there is.
So you already know about numpy dot arange.
There is also a torch dot arrange.
So torch arrange.
And let's have nine numbers here.
The functionality of torch arrange is exactly the same as the numpy version.
The only difference is that this variable.
The output of this function is of type tensor instead of being of type numpy array.
So let's create a new variable here v dot shape.
So we see it is a one dimensional tensor of shape of size nine.
Now what if we actually needed this to be a two dimensional tensor a matrix.
So that is not possible here.
But we can do something called un squeeze.
So there's another method called unsqueeze.
The zero here is for the dimension unsqueeze means to insert a singleton dimension.
So here you see let me show this.
So print v.
This is all the same numbers in both of these cases.
But when I unsqueeze now you can see there's an extra.
Let me zoom in here.
You can see there is an extra square bracket in here.
And why is there an extra square bracket?
Because now this has another Other dimension.
So let's write dot shape.
And I'll uncomment this.
And now you see this v here the output of torch A range is a nine element vector.
It's a one dimensional tensor.
And here we have a two dimensional tensor still with only nine elements.
Okay.
So v is a vector like this.
We can reshape this reshape to be three by three.
So that gives us a three by three matrix.
Again all the same numbers integers from zero through eight.
But now I have reshaped it into a three by three matrix.
So we can see that is a three by three two dimensional tensor.
I can unsqueeze this again.
And that's going to be a one by three by three tensor.
I can also unsqueeze the first dimension.
And that is going to give me a three by one by three tensor.
So it all gets a little bit confusing, but you will get the hang of it as you keep working through
through PyTorch.
Okay, so here you see this is the first element in the second dimension, the second element in the
second dimension, and the third element in the third dimension.
Again, when I write unsqueeze one, then that inserts a new singleton dimension to give us a three
dimensional tensor.
And this can get, you know, this stuff gets really wacky.
There's one more thing I want to show you in this video here.
So let's write V two.
And this is going to be torturing.
Now I'm going to make this be 18 numbers.
Okay.
So this is integers zero through 17.
So far not so interesting.
But because this is more numbers we can actually reshape this into a multidimensional tensor a three
dimensional tensor.
So let's do two by three by three.
So again this is now a cube of numbers.
You can see all the integers zero through 17, but the organization is that there are two two dimensional
matrices.
So one two dimensional matrix from 0 to 18 sorry to eight.
And then there's another two dimensional matrix that goes from 9 to 17.
So you think about this as being a slice like a slice of bread.
And this is a slice of bread.
And then you can actually put this on top of this one.
And then you get the two slices of bread on top of each other.
I'm sorry to say, there's no peanut butter and jelly in this particular slice in this sandwich, but
that is something you can think about.
So this is one slice of bread, another slice of bread.
And we put them together.
And that gives you a cube of numbers.
And it is of shape two by three by three.
Okay.
So let me print out this.
And then I will print out this.
Okay.
So here we have the shape down here.
And this is the actual three dimensional tensor over here.
What I want to do now this will be the last concept in this video is to introduce you to the function
transpose.
Transpose.
Now this is the same as what I did up here.
This dot little t is a method that is acting on this variable w1, which is an instance of a Python
PyTorch class of type tensor.
And what I have here is the function transpose in the torch library.
So we can transpose v2.
Now actually let me start with transposing.
Where do we have a less interesting one.
Let's go back to V.
Okay I'm going to redefine V to be torch dot.
Arrange dot.
Reshape three by three and then I will print out V and then we can look at its transpose.
Oops I meant to do like this.
Uh, sorry.
This is V like this.
Okay, here we go.
And now actually, let me also put a space in here just so it's a little bit easier to see.
This is the original matrix and this is the transposed matrix.
So you can see all the information is the same.
But the rows here are the columns over here.
And the columns over here in V are now the rows of v transpose.
Now why did I have to write in zero comma one.
These are the two dimensions that I want to transpose.
Now the thing is, in this particular variable there are only two dimensions in the first place right.
So we can say v dot shape.
There's only two dimensions.
So it's necessarily the case that we are going to transpose one for the other.
But we also have this variable v2.
And we know that this is a two by three by three tensor.
So what does it mean to transpose a tensor.
Well the thing about tensors is that you cannot just transpose them.
You need to specify the two dimensions that you want to transpose or that you want to swap.
So when you have a two dimensional tensor or a matrix, the only two dimensions that you can swap are
the rows and the columns, the columns and the rows.
That's all you have.
But when you have a three dimensional tensor, you need to specify which two dimensions you want to
swap, which you want to transpose.
Okay.
So now with V2 we can transpose or swap the first and the second dimensions.
So dimension index zero and dimension index one.
Or we can swap dimension index zero and two.
And let me show you what the shape of this will be.
Actually, let me go back to writing shape like this.
Okay.
So the original, uh, v2 tensor is of shape two by three by three.
But when I swap the first and third dimensions, I get a three by three by two tensor.
Because I have swapped the this dimension with this dimension.
Again, this is equivalent to swapping rows and columns, except we need to specify which dimensions
we are swapping.
Okay.
So I am going to close the video here.
But what I encourage you to do now is play around with this code and make sure you understand how this
information and this information are preserved, but swapped according to whether you write zero comma,
one zero comma 2 or 1 comma two.